.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Description
Please provide a brief description of the changes in this PR.

## Type of Change
Please prefix your PR title with one of the following:
- [ ] `[Bugfix]` - Bug fixes
- [ ] `[Core]` - Core backend changes (build, version upgrade, changes in user and sampling)
- [ ] `[Metrics]` - Changes made to metrics
- [ ] `[Frontend]` - UI dashboard and CLI entrypoint related changes
- [ ] `[Docs]` - Documentation changes
- [ ] `[CI/Tests]` - Unit tests and integration tests
- [ ] `[Report]` - Changes in generating plots and excel reports
- [ ] `[Misc]` - Other changes (use sparingly)

## Related Issue
Link the related issue: #<issue_number>

## Changes Made in this PR
- [ ] Change 1
- [ ] Change 2

## How Has This Been Tested?
Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes. Provide instructions so we can reproduce. Please also list any relevant details for your test configuration.

## Checklist
- [ ] I have rebased my branch on top of the latest main branch (`git pull origin main`)
- [ ] I have run `make check` to ensure code is properly formatted and passes all lint checks
- [ ] I have run `make test` or `make test_changed` to verify test coverage (~90% required)
- [ ] I have added tests that fail without my code changes (for bug fixes)
- [ ] I have added tests covering variants of new features (for new features)

## Additional Information
Add any other context, screenshots, or information about the PR here.

Commit message:

[Docs] Refine PR type section in pull request template

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Description
Please provide a brief description of the changes in this PR.

## What type of PR is this?
<!-- 
Add one of the following:
/kind Bug
/kind Core
/kind Frontend
/kind Docs
/kind CI/Tests
/kind Misc
-->

## Related Issue
<!-- 
Automatically closes linked issue when PR is merged.
Usage: Fixes #<issue number>, or Fixes (paste link of issue).
-->
Fixes #<issue_number>

## Changes Made in this PR
<!-- 
List the changes made in this PR.
-->
- [ ] Change 1  
- [ ] Change 2  

## How Has This Been Tested?
<!-- 
Please describe the tests that you ran to verify your changes. Provide instructions so we can reproduce. Please also list any relevant details for your test configuration.
-->

## Checklist
- [ ] I have rebased my branch on top of the latest main branch (`git pull origin main`)
- [ ] I have run `make check` to ensure code is properly formatted and passes all lint checks
- [ ] I have run `make test` or `make test_changed` to verify test coverage (~90% required)
- [ ] I have added tests that fail without my code changes (for bug fixes)
- [ ] I have added tests covering variants of new features (for new features)

## Additional Information
Add any other context, screenshots, or information about the PR here.
