docs/getting-started/cli-guidelines.md, before:

# CLI Guidelines

GenAI Bench provides three main CLI commands for running benchmarks, generating reports, and creating visualizations. This guide covers the options for each command.

## Overview

```shell
Commands:
  benchmark  Run a benchmark based on user defined scenarios.
  excel      Exports the experiment results to an Excel file.
  plot       Plots the experiment(s) results based on filters and group...
```

## Benchmark

The `benchmark` command runs performance tests against AI models. It's the core command for executing benchmarks.

### Example Usage
```bash
# Start a chat benchmark
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend sglang \
            --api-base "http://localhost:8082" \
            --api-key "your-openai-api-key" \
            --api-model-name "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct" \
            --model-tokenizer "/mnt/data/models/Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct" \
            --task text-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --server-engine "SGLang" \
            --server-gpu-type "H100" \
            --server-version "v0.6.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4
```

### Options

#### **API Configuration** (Required)
- `--api-backend` - Choose your model provider (openai, oci-cohere, aws-bedrock, azure-openai, gcp-vertex, vllm, sglang) **(required)**
- `--api-base` - API endpoint URL **(required)**
- `--api-model-name` - Model name for the request body **(required)**
- `--task` - Task type (text-to-text, text-to-embeddings, image-text-to-text, etc.) **(required)**

#### **Authentication**
- `--api-key` - API key (for OpenAI)
- `--model-api-key` - Alternative API key parameter
- Cloud-specific auth options (AWS, Azure, GCP, OCI)

#### **Experiment Parameters** (Required)
- `--max-requests-per-run` - Maximum requests to send each run **(required)**
- `--max-time-per-run` - Maximum duration for each run in minutes **(required)**
- `--model-tokenizer` - Path to the model tokenizer **(required)**
- `--num-concurrency` - Number of concurrent requests to send (multiple values supported in different runs)
- `--batch-size` - Batch sizes for embeddings/rerank tasks
- `--traffic-scenario` - Define input/output token distributions, more info in [Traffic Scenarios](../user-guide/scenario-definition.md)

#### **Dataset Options**
- `--dataset-path` - Path to dataset (local file, HuggingFace ID, or 'default')
- `--dataset-config` - JSON config file for advanced dataset options, more info in [Selecting Datasets](../user-guide/run-benchmark.md/#selecting-datasets)
- `--dataset-prompt-column` - Column name for prompts
- `--dataset-image-column` - Column name for images (multimodal)

#### **Server Information**
- `--server-engine` - Backend engine (vLLM, SGLang, TGI, etc.)
- `--server-version` - Server version
- `--server-gpu-type` - GPU type (H100, A100-80G, etc.)
- `--server-gpu-count` - Number of GPUs

For more information and examples, check out [Run Benchmark](../user-guide/run-benchmark.md).

## Excel

The `excel` command exports experiment results to Excel spreadsheets for detailed analysis.

### Example Usage

```bash
# Export with mean metrics in seconds
genai-bench excel \
  --experiment-folder ./experiments/openai_gpt-3.5-turbo_20241201_120000 \
  --excel-name benchmark_results \
  --metric-percentile mean \
  --metrics-time-unit s

# Export with 95th percentile in milliseconds
genai-bench excel \
  --experiment-folder ./experiments/my_experiment \
  --excel-name detailed_analysis \
  --metric-percentile p95 \
  --metrics-time-unit ms
```

### Options

- `--experiment-folder` - Path to experiment results folder **(required)**
- `--excel-name` - Name for the output Excel file **(required)**
- `--metric-percentile` - Statistical percentile (mean, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99) to select from
- `--metrics-time-unit [s|ms]` - Time unit to use when showing latency metrics in the spreadsheet. Defaults to seconds

## Plot

The `plot` command generates visualizations from experiment data with flexible configuration options.

### Example Usage

```bash
# Simple plot with default 2x4 layout
genai-bench plot \
  --experiments-folder ./experiments \
  --group-key traffic_scenario \
  --filter-criteria "{'model': 'gpt-3.5-turbo'}"

# Use built-in preset for latency analysis
genai-bench plot \
  --experiments-folder ./experiments \
  --group-key server_version \
  --preset multi_line_latency \
  --metrics-time-unit ms
```

### Options

- `--experiments-folder` - Path to experiments folder, can be more than one experiment **(required)**
- `--group-key` - Key to group data by (e.g., 'traffic_scenario', 'server_version', 'none') **(required)**
- `--filter-criteria` - Dictionary of filter criteria
- `--plot-config` - Path to JSON plot configuration file. For more information use [Advanced Plot Configuration](../user-guide/generate-plot.md/#advanced-plot-configuration)
- `--preset` - Built-in plot presets (2x4_default, simple_2x2, multi_line_latency, single_scenario_analysis). Overrides `--plot-config` if both given
- `--metrics-time-unit [s|ms]` - Time unit for latency display, defaults to seconds

### Advanced Options

- `--list-fields` - List available data fields and exit
- `--validate-only` - Validate configuration without generating plots
- `--verbose` - Enable detailed logging

For more information and examples, check out [Generate Plot](../user-guide/generate-plot.md).

## Getting Help

For detailed help on any command:

```bash
genai-bench --help
genai-bench benchmark --help
genai-bench excel --help
genai-bench plot --help
```

For further information, refer to the [User Guide](../user-guide/index.md). You can also look at [option_groups.py](https://github.com/sgl-project/genai-bench/blob/main/genai_bench/cli/option_groups.py) directly.

Commit message:

squash commits
small fix

remove flawed concurrency log

fix docs

fix rate calculation for warning logs

fix race condition

logging unit tests

update log warning

add concurency saturation warning log

give rate warnings

Revert "try high intensity tests"

This reverts commit 71023bbd6b5f41e644955da4ce41a6278404e35a.

try high intensity tests

change token bucket size

increase test requests

higher rate tests

simplify runner logic

fix

add max concurrency to metadata

add --max-concurrency arg

make-request-rate int

Revert "fix file naming edge case"

This reverts commit 618eb155eade71db45bf59e93a42dc7747dc5dfb.

request rate tests

fix file naming edge case

feedback

fix tests crash

remove unneeded change

sync method tests

add to other user classes and update synchronization

docs

cleanup

reorganize tests

update rate limiter tests

experiment loading

fix experiment loading

cancel on timeout

various cleanup

update iteration

tests

lint

cleanup and worker fixes

minor improvements

fix-distributed

fix tests

tests working

init

docs/getting-started/cli-guidelines.md, after:

# CLI Guidelines

GenAI Bench provides three main CLI commands for running benchmarks, generating reports, and creating visualizations. This guide covers the options for each command.

## Overview

```shell
Commands:
  benchmark  Run a benchmark based on user defined scenarios.
  excel      Exports the experiment results to an Excel file.
  plot       Plots the experiment(s) results based on filters and group...
```

## Benchmark

The `benchmark` command runs performance tests against AI models. It's the core command for executing benchmarks.

### Example Usage
```bash
# Start a chat benchmark
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend sglang \
            --api-base "http://localhost:8082" \
            --api-key "your-openai-api-key" \
            --api-model-name "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-70B-Instruct" \
            --model-tokenizer "/mnt/data/models/Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct" \
            --task text-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --server-engine "SGLang" \
            --server-gpu-type "H100" \
            --server-version "v0.6.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4
```

### Options

#### **API Configuration** (Required)
- `--api-backend` - Choose your model provider (openai, oci-cohere, aws-bedrock, azure-openai, gcp-vertex, vllm, sglang) **(required)**
- `--api-base` - API endpoint URL **(required)**
- `--api-model-name` - Model name for the request body **(required)**
- `--task` - Task type (text-to-text, text-to-embeddings, image-text-to-text, etc.) **(required)**

#### **Authentication**
- `--api-key` - API key (for OpenAI)
- `--model-api-key` - Alternative API key parameter
- Cloud-specific auth options (AWS, Azure, GCP, OCI)

#### **Experiment Parameters** (Required)
- `--max-requests-per-run` - Maximum requests to send each run **(required)**
- `--max-time-per-run` - Maximum duration for each run in minutes **(required)**
- `--model-tokenizer` - Path to the model tokenizer **(required)**
- `--num-concurrency` - Number of concurrent requests to send (multiple values supported in different runs). Mutually exclusive with `--request-rate`.
- `--request-rate` - Target request rates (requests/second) to test. Uses token bucket rate limiting for precise rate control. Mutually exclusive with `--num-concurrency`. Multiple values supported.
- `--max-concurrency` - Maximum concurrency for request rate runs. Only used when `--request-rate` is specified. Defaults to 5000.
- `--batch-size` - Batch sizes for embeddings/rerank tasks
- `--traffic-scenario` - Define input/output token distributions, more info in [Traffic Scenarios](../user-guide/scenario-definition.md)

#### **Dataset Options**
- `--dataset-path` - Path to dataset (local file, HuggingFace ID, or 'default')
- `--dataset-config` - JSON config file for advanced dataset options, more info in [Selecting Datasets](../user-guide/run-benchmark.md/#selecting-datasets)
- `--dataset-prompt-column` - Column name for prompts
- `--dataset-image-column` - Column name for images (multimodal)

#### **Server Information**
- `--server-engine` - Backend engine (vLLM, SGLang, TGI, etc.)
- `--server-version` - Server version
- `--server-gpu-type` - GPU type (H100, A100-80G, etc.)
- `--server-gpu-count` - Number of GPUs

For more information and examples, check out [Run Benchmark](../user-guide/run-benchmark.md).

## Excel

The `excel` command exports experiment results to Excel spreadsheets for detailed analysis.

### Example Usage

```bash
# Export with mean metrics in seconds
genai-bench excel \
  --experiment-folder ./experiments/openai_gpt-3.5-turbo_20241201_120000 \
  --excel-name benchmark_results \
  --metric-percentile mean \
  --metrics-time-unit s

# Export with 95th percentile in milliseconds
genai-bench excel \
  --experiment-folder ./experiments/my_experiment \
  --excel-name detailed_analysis \
  --metric-percentile p95 \
  --metrics-time-unit ms
```

### Options

- `--experiment-folder` - Path to experiment results folder **(required)**
- `--excel-name` - Name for the output Excel file **(required)**
- `--metric-percentile` - Statistical percentile (mean, p25, p50, p75, p90, p95, p99) to select from
- `--metrics-time-unit [s|ms]` - Time unit to use when showing latency metrics in the spreadsheet. Defaults to seconds

## Plot

The `plot` command generates visualizations from experiment data with flexible configuration options.

### Example Usage

```bash
# Simple plot with default 2x4 layout
genai-bench plot \
  --experiments-folder ./experiments \
  --group-key traffic_scenario \
  --filter-criteria "{'model': 'gpt-3.5-turbo'}"

# Use built-in preset for latency analysis
genai-bench plot \
  --experiments-folder ./experiments \
  --group-key server_version \
  --preset multi_line_latency \
  --metrics-time-unit ms
```

### Options

- `--experiments-folder` - Path to experiments folder, can be more than one experiment **(required)**
- `--group-key` - Key to group data by (e.g., 'traffic_scenario', 'server_version', 'none') **(required)**
- `--filter-criteria` - Dictionary of filter criteria
- `--plot-config` - Path to JSON plot configuration file. For more information use [Advanced Plot Configuration](../user-guide/generate-plot.md/#advanced-plot-configuration)
- `--preset` - Built-in plot presets (2x4_default, simple_2x2, multi_line_latency, single_scenario_analysis). Overrides `--plot-config` if both given
- `--metrics-time-unit [s|ms]` - Time unit for latency display, defaults to seconds

### Advanced Options

- `--list-fields` - List available data fields and exit
- `--validate-only` - Validate configuration without generating plots
- `--verbose` - Enable detailed logging

For more information and examples, check out [Generate Plot](../user-guide/generate-plot.md).

## Getting Help

For detailed help on any command:

```bash
genai-bench --help
genai-bench benchmark --help
genai-bench excel --help
genai-bench plot --help
```

For further information, refer to the [User Guide](../user-guide/index.md). You can also look at [option_groups.py](https://github.com/sgl-project/genai-bench/blob/main/genai_bench/cli/option_groups.py) directly.
