docs/user-guide/run-benchmark.md, before:

# Run Benchmark

> **Note**: GenAI Bench now supports multiple cloud providers for both model endpoints and storage. For detailed multi-cloud configuration, see the [Multi-Cloud Authentication & Storage Guide](multi-cloud-auth-storage.md) or the [Quick Reference](multi-cloud-quick-reference.md).

## Start a chat benchmark

**IMPORTANT**: Use `genai-bench benchmark --help` to check out each command option and how to use it.

For starter, you can try to type `genai-bench benchmark`, it will prompt the list of options you need to specify.

Below is a sample command you can use to start a benchmark. The command will connect with a server running on address
`http://localhost:8082`, using the default traffic scenario and num concurrency, and run each combination 1 minute.

```shell
# Optional. This is required when you load the tokenizer from huggingface.co with a model-id
export HF_TOKEN="<your-key>"
# HF transformers will log a warning about torch not installed, since benchmark doesn't really need torch
# and cuda, we use this env to disable the warning
export TRANSFORMERS_VERBOSITY=error

genai-bench benchmark --api-backend openai \
            --api-base "http://localhost:8082" \
            --api-key "your-openai-api-key" \
            --api-model-name "vllm-model" \
            --model-tokenizer "/mnt/data/models/Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct" \
            --task text-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --server-engine "vLLM" \
            --server-gpu-type "H100" \
            --server-version "v0.6.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4
```

## Start a vision based chat benchmark

**IMPORTANT**: Image auto-generation pipeline is not yet implemented in this repository, hence we will be using a huggingface dataset instead.

* **Image Datasets**: [Huggingface Llava Benchmark Images](https://huggingface.co/datasets/shenoyvvarun/llava-bench-in-the-wild)

Below is a sample command to trigger a vision benchmark task.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark \
            --api-backend openai \
            --api-key "your-openai-api-key" \
            --api-base "http://localhost:8180" \
            --api-model-name "/models/Phi-3-vision-128k-instruct" \
            --model-tokenizer "/models/Phi-3-vision-128k-instruct" \
            --task image-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --server-engine vLLM \
            --server-gpu-type A100-80G \
            --server-version "v0.6.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4 \
            --traffic-scenario "I(256,256)" \
            --traffic-scenario "I(1024,1024)" \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --num-concurrency 8 \
            --dataset-config ./examples/dataset_configs/config_llava-bench-in-the-wild.json
```

## Start an embedding benchmark

Below is a sample command to trigger an embedding benchmark task. Note: when running an embedding benchmark, it is recommended to set `--num-concurrency` to 1.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend openai \
            --api-base "http://172.18.0.3:8000" \
            --api-key "xxx" \
            --api-model-name "/models/e5-mistral-7b-instruct" \
            --model-tokenizer "/mnt/data/models/e5-mistral-7b-instruct" \
            --task text-to-embeddings \
            --server-engine "SGLang" \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 1500 \
            --traffic-scenario "E(64)" \
            --traffic-scenario "E(128)" \
            --traffic-scenario "E(512)" \
            --traffic-scenario "E(1024)" \
            --server-gpu-type "H100" \
            --server-version "v0.4.2" \
            --server-gpu-count 1
```

## Start a rerank benchmark against OCI Cohere

Below is a sample command to trigger a benchmark against cohere chat API.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend oci-cohere \
            --config-file /home/ubuntu/.oci/config \
            --api-base "https://ppe.inference.generativeai.us-chicago-1.oci.oraclecloud.com" \
            --api-model-name "rerank-v3.5" \
            --model-tokenizer "Cohere/rerank-v3.5" \
            --server-engine "cohere-TensorRT" \
            --task text-to-rerank \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --server-gpu-type A100-80G \
            --server-version "1.7.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4 \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 3 \
            --additional-request-params '{"compartmentId": "COMPARTMENTID", "endpointId": "ENDPOINTID", "servingType": "DEDICATED"}' \
            --num-workers 4
```


## Start a benchmark against OCI Cohere

Below is a sample command to trigger a benchmark against cohere chat API.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend oci-cohere \
            --config-file /home/ubuntu/.oci/config \
            --api-base "https://inference.generativeai.us-chicago-1.oci.oraclecloud.com" \
            --api-model-name "c4ai-command-r-08-2024" \
            --model-tokenizer "/home/ubuntu/c4ai-command-r-08-2024" \
            --server-engine "vLLM" \
            --task text-to-text \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --server-gpu-type A100-80G \
            --server-version "command_r_082024_v1_7" \
            --server-gpu-count 4 \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --additional-request-params '{"compartmentId": "COMPARTMENTID", "endpointId": "ENDPOINTID", "servingType": "DEDICATED"}' \
            --num-workers 4
```


## Monitor a benchmark

**IMPORTANT**: logs in genai-bench are all useful. Please keep an eye on WARNING logs when you finish one benchmark.


### Specify --traffic-scenario and --num-concurrency


**IMPORTANT**: Please use `genai-bench benchmark --help` to check out the latest default value of `--num-concurrency`
and `--traffic-scenario`.

Both options are defined as [multi-value options](https://click.palletsprojects.com/en/8.1.x/options/#multi-value-options) in click. Meaning you can pass this command multiple times. If you want to define your own `--num-concurrency` or `--traffic-scenario`, you can use

```shell
genai-bench benchmark \
            --api-backend openai \
            --task text-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 10 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --num-concurrency 1 --num-concurrency 2 --num-concurrency 4 \
            --num-concurrency 8 --num-concurrency 16 --num-concurrency 32 \
            --traffic-scenario "N(480,240)/(300,150)" --traffic-scenario "D(100,100)"
```



### Notes on specific options


To manage each run or iteration in an experiment, genai-bench uses two parameters to control the exit logic. You can find more details in the `manage_run_time` function located in [utils.py](https://github.com/sgl-project/genai-bench/blob/main/genai_bench/cli/utils.py). Combination of `--max-time-per-run` and `--max-requests-per-run` should save overall time of one benchmark.

For light traffic scenarios, such as D(7800,200) or lighter, we recommend the following settings:

```shell
            --max-time-per-run 10 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
```

For heavier traffic scenarios, like `D(16000,200)` or `D(128000,200)`, use the following configuration:

```shell
            --max-time-per-run 30 \
            --max-requests-per-run 100 \
            --traffic-scenario "D(16000,200)" \
            --traffic-scenario "D(32000,200)" \
            --traffic-scenario "D(128000,200)" \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --num-concurrency 2 \
            --num-concurrency 4 \
            --num-concurrency 8 \
            --num-concurrency 16 \
            --num-concurrency 32 \
```


## Distributed Benchmark

If you see the message below in the genai-bench logs, it indicates that a single process is insufficient to generate the desired load.

```log
CPU usage above 90%! This may constrain your throughput and may even give inconsistent response time measurements!
```

To address this, you can increase the number of worker processes using the `--num-workers` option. For example, to spin up 4 worker processes, use:

```shell
    --num-workers 4
    --master-port 5577
```

This distributes the load across multiple processes on a single machine, improving performance and ensuring your benchmark runs smoothly.

### Notes on Usage

1. This feature is experimental, so monitor the system's behavior when enabling multiple workers.
2. Recommended Limit: Do **not** set the number of workers to more than 16, as excessive worker processes can lead to resource contention and diminished performance.
3. Ensure your system has sufficient CPU and memory resources to support the desired number of workers.
4. Adjust the number of workers based on your target load and system capacity to achieve optimal results.


## Using Dataset Configurations
Genai-bench supports flexible dataset configurations through two approaches:

### Simple CLI Usage (for basic datasets)
```shell
# Local CSV file
--dataset-path /path/to/data.csv \
--dataset-prompt-column "prompt"

# HuggingFace dataset with simple options
--dataset-path squad \
--dataset-prompt-column "question"

# Local text file (default)
--dataset-path /path/to/prompts.txt
```

### Advanced Configuration Files (for complex setups)
For advanced HuggingFace configurations, create a JSON config file:

**Important Note for HuggingFace Datasets:**
When using HuggingFace datasets, you should always check if you need a `split`, `subset` parameter to avoid errors. If you don't specify, HuggingFace's `load_dataset` may return a `DatasetDict` object instead of a `Dataset`, which will cause the benchmark to fail.

**config.json:**
```json
{
  "source": {
    "type": "huggingface",
    "path": "ccdv/govreport-summarization",
    "huggingface_kwargs": {
      "split": "train",
      "revision": "main",
      "streaming": true
    }
  },
  "prompt_column": "report"
}
```

**Vision dataset config:**
```json
{
  "source": {
    "type": "huggingface",
    "path": "BLINK-Benchmark/BLINK",
    "huggingface_kwargs": {
      "split": "test",
      "name": "Jigsaw"
    }
  },
  "prompt_column": "question",
  "image_column": "image_1"
}
```

**Example for the llava-bench-in-the-wild dataset:**
```json
{
  "source": {
    "type": "huggingface",
    "path": "lmms-lab/llava-bench-in-the-wild",
    "huggingface_kwargs": {
      "split": "train"
    }
  },
  "prompt_column": "question",
  "image_column": "image"
}
```

Then use: `--dataset-config config.json`

**Benefits of config files:**
- Access to ALL HuggingFace `load_dataset` parameters
- Reusable and version-controllable
- Support for complex configurations
- Future-proof (no CLI updates needed for new HuggingFace features)

Commit message:

[Frontend] Make HF_TOKEN optional for tokenizer download (#33)

docs/user-guide/run-benchmark.md, after:

# Run Benchmark

> **Note**: GenAI Bench now supports multiple cloud providers for both model endpoints and storage. For detailed multi-cloud configuration, see the [Multi-Cloud Authentication & Storage Guide](multi-cloud-auth-storage.md) or the [Quick Reference](multi-cloud-quick-reference.md).

## Start a chat benchmark

**IMPORTANT**: Use `genai-bench benchmark --help` to check out each command option and how to use it.

For starter, you can try to type `genai-bench benchmark`, it will prompt the list of options you need to specify.

Below is a sample command you can use to start a benchmark. The command will connect with a server running on address
`http://localhost:8082`, using the default traffic scenario and num concurrency, and run each combination 1 minute.

```shell
# Optional. Only needed for private/gated repositories or higher rate-limits
export HF_TOKEN="<your-token>"
# HF transformers will log a warning about torch not installed, since benchmark doesn't really need torch
# and cuda, we use this env to disable the warning
export TRANSFORMERS_VERBOSITY=error

genai-bench benchmark --api-backend openai \
            --api-base "http://localhost:8082" \
            --api-key "your-openai-api-key" \
            --api-model-name "vllm-model" \
            --model-tokenizer "/mnt/data/models/Meta-Llama-3.1-70B-Instruct" \
            --task text-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --server-engine "vLLM" \
            --server-gpu-type "H100" \
            --server-version "v0.6.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4
```

## Start a vision based chat benchmark

**IMPORTANT**: Image auto-generation pipeline is not yet implemented in this repository, hence we will be using a huggingface dataset instead.

* **Image Datasets**: [Huggingface Llava Benchmark Images](https://huggingface.co/datasets/shenoyvvarun/llava-bench-in-the-wild)

Below is a sample command to trigger a vision benchmark task.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark \
            --api-backend openai \
            --api-key "your-openai-api-key" \
            --api-base "http://localhost:8180" \
            --api-model-name "/models/Phi-3-vision-128k-instruct" \
            --model-tokenizer "/models/Phi-3-vision-128k-instruct" \
            --task image-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --server-engine vLLM \
            --server-gpu-type A100-80G \
            --server-version "v0.6.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4 \
            --traffic-scenario "I(256,256)" \
            --traffic-scenario "I(1024,1024)" \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --num-concurrency 8 \
            --dataset-config ./examples/dataset_configs/config_llava-bench-in-the-wild.json
```

## Start an embedding benchmark

Below is a sample command to trigger an embedding benchmark task. Note: when running an embedding benchmark, it is recommended to set `--num-concurrency` to 1.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend openai \
            --api-base "http://172.18.0.3:8000" \
            --api-key "xxx" \
            --api-model-name "/models/e5-mistral-7b-instruct" \
            --model-tokenizer "/mnt/data/models/e5-mistral-7b-instruct" \
            --task text-to-embeddings \
            --server-engine "SGLang" \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 1500 \
            --traffic-scenario "E(64)" \
            --traffic-scenario "E(128)" \
            --traffic-scenario "E(512)" \
            --traffic-scenario "E(1024)" \
            --server-gpu-type "H100" \
            --server-version "v0.4.2" \
            --server-gpu-count 1
```

## Start a rerank benchmark against OCI Cohere

Below is a sample command to trigger a benchmark against cohere chat API.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend oci-cohere \
            --config-file /home/ubuntu/.oci/config \
            --api-base "https://ppe.inference.generativeai.us-chicago-1.oci.oraclecloud.com" \
            --api-model-name "rerank-v3.5" \
            --model-tokenizer "Cohere/rerank-v3.5" \
            --server-engine "cohere-TensorRT" \
            --task text-to-rerank \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --server-gpu-type A100-80G \
            --server-version "1.7.0" \
            --server-gpu-count 4 \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 3 \
            --additional-request-params '{"compartmentId": "COMPARTMENTID", "endpointId": "ENDPOINTID", "servingType": "DEDICATED"}' \
            --num-workers 4
```


## Start a benchmark against OCI Cohere

Below is a sample command to trigger a benchmark against cohere chat API.

```shell
genai-bench benchmark --api-backend oci-cohere \
            --config-file /home/ubuntu/.oci/config \
            --api-base "https://inference.generativeai.us-chicago-1.oci.oraclecloud.com" \
            --api-model-name "c4ai-command-r-08-2024" \
            --model-tokenizer "/home/ubuntu/c4ai-command-r-08-2024" \
            --server-engine "vLLM" \
            --task text-to-text \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --server-gpu-type A100-80G \
            --server-version "command_r_082024_v1_7" \
            --server-gpu-count 4 \
            --max-time-per-run 15 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --additional-request-params '{"compartmentId": "COMPARTMENTID", "endpointId": "ENDPOINTID", "servingType": "DEDICATED"}' \
            --num-workers 4
```


## Monitor a benchmark

**IMPORTANT**: logs in genai-bench are all useful. Please keep an eye on WARNING logs when you finish one benchmark.


### Specify --traffic-scenario and --num-concurrency


**IMPORTANT**: Please use `genai-bench benchmark --help` to check out the latest default value of `--num-concurrency`
and `--traffic-scenario`.

Both options are defined as [multi-value options](https://click.palletsprojects.com/en/8.1.x/options/#multi-value-options) in click. Meaning you can pass this command multiple times. If you want to define your own `--num-concurrency` or `--traffic-scenario`, you can use

```shell
genai-bench benchmark \
            --api-backend openai \
            --task text-to-text \
            --max-time-per-run 10 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
            --num-concurrency 1 --num-concurrency 2 --num-concurrency 4 \
            --num-concurrency 8 --num-concurrency 16 --num-concurrency 32 \
            --traffic-scenario "N(480,240)/(300,150)" --traffic-scenario "D(100,100)"
```



### Notes on specific options


To manage each run or iteration in an experiment, genai-bench uses two parameters to control the exit logic. You can find more details in the `manage_run_time` function located in [utils.py](https://github.com/sgl-project/genai-bench/blob/main/genai_bench/cli/utils.py). Combination of `--max-time-per-run` and `--max-requests-per-run` should save overall time of one benchmark.

For light traffic scenarios, such as D(7800,200) or lighter, we recommend the following settings:

```shell
            --max-time-per-run 10 \
            --max-requests-per-run 300 \
```

For heavier traffic scenarios, like `D(16000,200)` or `D(128000,200)`, use the following configuration:

```shell
            --max-time-per-run 30 \
            --max-requests-per-run 100 \
            --traffic-scenario "D(16000,200)" \
            --traffic-scenario "D(32000,200)" \
            --traffic-scenario "D(128000,200)" \
            --num-concurrency 1 \
            --num-concurrency 2 \
            --num-concurrency 4 \
            --num-concurrency 8 \
            --num-concurrency 16 \
            --num-concurrency 32 \
```


## Distributed Benchmark

If you see the message below in the genai-bench logs, it indicates that a single process is insufficient to generate the desired load.

```log
CPU usage above 90%! This may constrain your throughput and may even give inconsistent response time measurements!
```

To address this, you can increase the number of worker processes using the `--num-workers` option. For example, to spin up 4 worker processes, use:

```shell
    --num-workers 4
    --master-port 5577
```

This distributes the load across multiple processes on a single machine, improving performance and ensuring your benchmark runs smoothly.

### Notes on Usage

1. This feature is experimental, so monitor the system's behavior when enabling multiple workers.
2. Recommended Limit: Do **not** set the number of workers to more than 16, as excessive worker processes can lead to resource contention and diminished performance.
3. Ensure your system has sufficient CPU and memory resources to support the desired number of workers.
4. Adjust the number of workers based on your target load and system capacity to achieve optimal results.


## Using Dataset Configurations
Genai-bench supports flexible dataset configurations through two approaches:

### Simple CLI Usage (for basic datasets)
```shell
# Local CSV file
--dataset-path /path/to/data.csv \
--dataset-prompt-column "prompt"

# HuggingFace dataset with simple options
--dataset-path squad \
--dataset-prompt-column "question"

# Local text file (default)
--dataset-path /path/to/prompts.txt
```

### Advanced Configuration Files (for complex setups)
For advanced HuggingFace configurations, create a JSON config file:

**Important Note for HuggingFace Datasets:**
When using HuggingFace datasets, you should always check if you need a `split`, `subset` parameter to avoid errors. If you don't specify, HuggingFace's `load_dataset` may return a `DatasetDict` object instead of a `Dataset`, which will cause the benchmark to fail.

**config.json:**
```json
{
  "source": {
    "type": "huggingface",
    "path": "ccdv/govreport-summarization",
    "huggingface_kwargs": {
      "split": "train",
      "revision": "main",
      "streaming": true
    }
  },
  "prompt_column": "report"
}
```

**Vision dataset config:**
```json
{
  "source": {
    "type": "huggingface",
    "path": "BLINK-Benchmark/BLINK",
    "huggingface_kwargs": {
      "split": "test",
      "name": "Jigsaw"
    }
  },
  "prompt_column": "question",
  "image_column": "image_1"
}
```

**Example for the llava-bench-in-the-wild dataset:**
```json
{
  "source": {
    "type": "huggingface",
    "path": "lmms-lab/llava-bench-in-the-wild",
    "huggingface_kwargs": {
      "split": "train"
    }
  },
  "prompt_column": "question",
  "image_column": "image"
}
```

Then use: `--dataset-config config.json`

**Benefits of config files:**
- Access to ALL HuggingFace `load_dataset` parameters
- Reusable and version-controllable
- Support for complex configurations
- Future-proof (no CLI updates needed for new HuggingFace features)
